# UDP Chatting Tool
* Download the file marked MyNewServer.py on your server side host. Create a new folder on your desktop on the server side host and place the MyNewServer.py in that folder, this is your server side project folder. I ususally name the folder "ProjectServerSide". 
* Download the file marked MyNewClient.py on your client side host. Create a new folder on your desktop on the client side host and place the MyNewClient.py in that folder, this is your client side project folder. I ususally name the folder "ProjectClientSide". 
* To run the program for both the client side and the server side you will need Python 3 and an IDE, or you can use the command prompt to edit the python files and run it.
* This program was created in a Windows 10 Environment, but an OSX or Linux Environment should work for running the programs. However, Windows 10 environment is preferred for running both the server side and client side of the program.
* The only dependency for this program is a python package called Pillow. Install it by running pip install Pillow
* Open the IDE you are using or edit the file MyNewClient.py in the command line and change the variable serverName on line 12 in the code. The variable serverName in the file MyNewClient.py should be changed to the IP address of the server side host. So get the IP address of your server side host, change the variable of serverName in the file MyNewClient.py on the client side, and save your changes. Now you are ready to run the program!
* Run the server side program file MyNewServer.py first and then run the client side program file MyNewClient.py, the handshake process should happen and the UI will pop up not long after. Now you are ready to use the chatting tool!
* When you first run the UI it will ask for your name on both the client and server side the name you enter should be composed of text and nothing else, no emojis are allowed in the name. The client and server sides must enter a name before doing anything else in the chatting tool app.
* When sending emojis between client and server and vice versa you must have at least two letters in front of the emoji and the emoji must always be at the end of the sentence you are typing. It is not allowed in the program to just send emojis without any text or send text + emoji + more text or to just have one letter + emoji. You can send multiple emojis together as long as they are at the end of the sentence you are sending that includes at least 2 letters in front of the emojis.
* DO NOT USE THE FOLLOWING key combinations when sending data between the client side and server side and vice versa, these key combinations are reserved for the program and cannot be used by the user in any circumstance. Here are the following off limits key combinations that the user is prohibited from sending to the client side or server side, since the program uses these key combinations. The key combinations are enclosed in quotes and seperated by commas: '`!', '~~', '~`', '~!S', '```', '~!', and '`~' the user can NOT use any of these key combinations together in their text messages that they send between the server side and client side and vice versa.
* Once you are finished with the chatting tool app on the client side or server side exit the app by pressing the X button in the top right of the window.